>> Sarah Drasner: Hi, I'm Sarah Drasner.
I work for
Microsoft as a senior developer advocate.
I also work on the Vue Core team and
I work for CSS-Tricks as a staff writer.
I'm so excited to be here with you today
talking about my favorite thing in
the world which is SVG animations.
And taking SVG and doing all of these
amazing things with this technology.
I did give this workshop two years ago but
I have doubled the course content now.
Not because there's so much more in SVG,
it's pretty stable actually.
It kinda just goes along,
support is awesome.
And everything that you could do then,
you can do now.
But there's so many different ways to use
it that I've expanded this course to
show all of these different insights.
Especially, there's a few little
things that I'm going to show you with
frameworks that I didn't
have in the last class
because frameworks weren't
as big of a thing back then.
Cool, all right, let's talk about SVG.
This is the repo,
if you need to check it out.
You don't necessarily have to download
the entire repo if you don't want to or
fork it but the links to all of
the slides dex are in the read me.
They are password protected,
not to secure them or anything but
just because I keep all of my slides for
other talks on my profile and
there's a lot of workshop materials.
So if you go over there, there's
just like a little, in the read me,
there's a password that you stick in and
you can get in there.
Another thing that would be good for
you to do is to get a free CodePen account
in order to play along with the exercises.
There's a lot of exercise and
a lot of CodePen demos in here.
You don't have to use CodePen.
You can use something else but all of the
exercises and all the collections are in
CodePen so it might be easier for
you if you use something else.
You're gonna end up copy
pasting a lot of stuff.
Great, so suggestions for
getting the most out of this course.
I really thinks it's imperative
that you do the exercises.
If you don't do the exercises, you're not
really getting all of the information,
all of the things that
you can get out of it.
I don't know if any of you have read,
Learn Python the Hard Way.
But in that book, he talks a little bit in
the beginning of the book about how you
should actually type out all the exercises
instead of just cloning the repo and
looking at them.
Physically typing everything that he's
saying and trying everything out.
And I think that that's so valuable,
not just for this course, but for
all of these kind of things where
you're learning how to code.
It might seem like it takes a longer time
to do all of the exercises that way but
you're actually learning much
better if you do it yourself.
So we're gonna work with
CodePen a bunch today.
So I'm gonna show you some things
that you can do in CodePen.
First, I have this CodePen
propaganda poster.
I don't work for CodePen,
I just really like them.
Yeah, because in Soviet Minneapolis,
the CodePen is loaded with you.
[LAUGH] Let's do, when we work inside
CodePen, I'm gonna change view here.
Notice that I'm in this Full View.
I'm gonna change the view
to this Editor View and
that's where you can see HTML,
CSS and JavaScript.
In JavaScript, you can see that you
can add a JavaScript preprocessor.
I usually start my pens with Babel,
you don't have to use Babel
if you don't want to.
This is an older pen so it has jQuery.
In CSS, I use SCSS as a preprocessor.
Again, you can use
whatever you like in here.
I also have normalize autoprefixer,
prefixfree, all of those kind of things.
Suff for the head is in here if you
need to add classes to the HTML,
that's here and
same with HTML preprocessors.
There are assets here, I think you'll only
get assets if you have a paid account.
That's probably accurate.
I can't remember, but
one of the cool things,
you see this little star that I have here.
You won't have that star probably.
I'm a CodePen picker.
So if you make a CodePen that you're
really proud of off of this class,
you should let me know so that I can
maybe pick it for the homepage and
feature your work.
Cool, another couple of things to note.
I have this extension that pops
this open in a debug window and
then it pops it back open over here.
And that's what makes
the extension code open.
Full disclosure, my husband made that for
me because we're both nerds and
he was watching me open different tabs and
stick the URL in.
So that was like an anniversary
present he made for me,
cuz nerds, we like each other sometimes.
[LAUGH] It is actually really
nice because this debug window,
you notice that debug slug.
I mean I can get between these two,
I can just write pen and
then I can change the slug again and
write debug to get to the other window.
Really, what CodePen is doing,
it's actually a React application.
It has a bunch of iframes so
this is an iframe, iframe, iframe, iframe.
And so if you're trying to look at
the elements inside of this, you have to
navigate through all of the iframes and
it's really complicated and not so great.
So if we open it up in here,
inside here you can see the raw HTML,
and raw CSS, and raw JavaScript.
So it's really helpful to look
at it in the debug window
when you're going back and forth, cool.
Also, one other thing.
GreenSock, we're gonna be
working with GreenSock today.
GreenSock's base thing of TweenMax
that has a ton of features is free and
open source, but
there's a lot of extra things I'm gonna
show you today that are paid for plugins.
If you're working with CodePen,
you don't have to pay for them though.
You can play with them and try them out.
And this that's linked up here
this CodePen safe plugins.
This page has all of those things.
So it has a list that they keep up to
date, you can copy each one of them and
there's also a collection for
each one of them of relevant pens, so
that's really cool.
So if you don't wanna buy a membership,
you can try out all of
those plugins there, cool.